```yaml {metadata}
title: Enchanting Guide
description: |
  Learn how to level up enchanting.
category: Skills
author: SkyKings
tags:
  - Skill
  - Enchanting
  - Experimentation Table
```

If you've been living under a rock or just somehow haven't seen our guide about the enchanting update then fear not
because today I'm here to simplify everything there is to know about enchanting in a more concise form. So make sure you
watch this whole guide to not miss on any small detail that you need to know.

So first, the enchanting table. Your enchanted table allows you to apply basic enchantments at the cost of a little bit
of enchanting hp. Ideally for the best results, you're going to want the highest level of all-in chance. These enchants
are all laid out in the table and you can click one of the icons to see all the tiers of them and their cost. All
enchantments cost vanilla hp levels to varying levels and cost as low as 5 levels for telekinesis to 75 for thunderbolt.

5\. The easiest way to fully enchant a weapon is to buy a stack of grand experience bottles from the bazaar and use them
one or two at a time to get every enchant. Also make sure you have a good bit of the lapis collection to make an
experienced potion to get a lot more xp. If you have a dropbot that works too.

Some enchantments require a level of enchant power and enchant power is gained by surrounding your table in enchanted
books. If you're lazy just place a few enchanted butch shelves and you're good to go. But a usual setup of surrounding a
table with boot shelves will give you access to every enchant.

But wait a second, you can't have every single enchant because some enchants have conflicts. Conflicts are when you
can't apply two different enchantments together. There's not a lot of these but the decisions you make make a huge
difference on your weapon. Not everything has conflicts of course. Actually, the only real thing that has conflicts is
swords as the general strategy for armor is to get protection, thorns, and growth and then the rest of the tools are
simply just get everything but swords are important to get right.

There's 5 main conflicts on screen now and to save your time, I'm going to simply tell you the best choice. If you want
my full reasoning, check out the laundry guide I'll leave a timestamp and all for that in the description. Siphon is
better than lifesteal, first strike is better for early game players, triple strike is better for later game players,
thunder lord is better than thunderbolt, extitute is better than prostitute and giant killer is better than titan
killer. Honorable mention, rejuvenate is better than respite.

If you've ever heard people tell you not to get certain enchants because they ruin the weapon, this is no longer true.
Enchantments like fire aspect, venomous, and thorns no longer impact your damage tips which means they're good to use
and provide solid bonus damage. Get them if you previously decided not to.

I won't put a funny sideway in this guide because it's supposed to be educational and whatever but I'll tell you this,
if you like our daily uploads then I really suggest you subscribe. Like give it a try, you got nothing to lose.

Okay next up, you aren't going to unlock all enchants by default. To have access to all main enchants you need
enchanting level 20 and if you want access to all the fancy ones then you're going to want level 36. To level this,
you're going to want to do experiments. Experiments are the easiest way to get millions of enchanting hp extremely fast.
Just doing one of these from level 0 will take you way up to level 10 and it's nearly completely free to do. Make sure
you log in once per day to do your free daily experiments and do the highest tiers you can do yourself. Once you've done
your first one, you can refresh them at a cost. The first one needs 100 bits and 100 hp levels or about 16 grand
experience bottles. The second needs 200 bits and 200 xp levels or about a titanic and the third and final one is 500
bits and 400 levels or lossl.

Then from there, do your experiments and you'll be enchanting 60 in no time. If you are a higher level and want the
bonus ability damage and intelligence, invest in a guardian pet to earn 30 percent more experience. It wasn't mentioned
anywhere but it is a great way to get to level 60.

So, that's everything you need to know about enchanting in a nutshell. Make sure to watch the full guide to not miss any
small details and subscribe for more updates and tutorials. And remember, always keep experimenting to find the perfect
enchant for your weapon.
