```yaml {metadata}
title: Nutcracker Fishing Guide
description: |
    Learn how to fish nutcrackers.
category: Other
author: SkyKings
tags:
    - Fishing
    - Money
    - Winter Island
```

Yeti and Nutcracker fishing on the Jerry Island can be a great way to earn money in the game. Yeti fishing involves
catching yeti sea creatures, which have a small chance to drop a yeti pet that can be sold at a high price on the
auction house. The yeti sea creature has a base catch chance of 0.44%, but this number can be increased by various
methods. Nutcracker fishing, on the other hand, involves catching nutcracker sea creatures which have three drops; lily
pads, walnuts and red gifts. The red gifts are the most valuable item and whenever you kill a nutcracker you are
guaranteed 2 red gifts. The base catch chance for the nutcracker is around 1.5%.

To start Yeti and Nutcracker fishing, you will need fishing level 28 or higher, nutcracker armor, an auger rod, a
reindeer pet, and whale bait. The nutcracker armor is a good choice for many reasons, mostly because it doubles its
stats while on the Jerry Island. It also has 1.5 scc on each piece (6 in total) and on the Jerry Island you get 3 scc (
so 12 in total). It also has a base 2 magic find which gets doubled to 4 on the Jerry Island. This makes it comparable
to sorrow armor (the best magic find set in the game, which has 5 magic find per piece). On top of that, if there are
other people around you with nutcracker armor you get magic find too!

The auger rod is the most important part of your setup and it triples the chance to get winter sea creatures. The
reindeer pet is also a great choice because it not only gives 75 fishing speed at max level, it also gives 15 scc on the
Jerry Island. If you put a washed up souvenir on it, you're looking at 20 scc. Bait, such as whale bait, can help
increase the chance of getting a higher tier sea creature. If whale bait is too expensive, you can use ice bait as an
alternative.

Fishing in a party of people is also recommended as you can lootshare sea creatures. Fishing parties are very important
because even on lootshare, you are still guaranteed 2 red gifts from a nutcracker. When lootsharing yetis make sure the
person with the best magic find setup does the last hit to get a higher chance at a yeti pet.

Other recommendations include not getting a sorrow set for magic find as nutcracker armor is just 4 magic find off and
drinking mushed glowy tonic whenever you are fishing to get 30 extra fishing speed. This can be bought from Moby in the
mushroom desert.

As for where to fish, the hot springs under the volcano and the Jerry Pond are great options. Reindrakes, a sea creature
that can be fished at level 35 or higher, can also be caught in these areas.

In addition to the gear and tips mentioned above, there are a few other things to keep in mind when fishing for Yetis
and Nutcrackers on the Jerry Island.

First, it's important to note that the catch chance for these sea creatures can be increased by using certain
enchantments. For example, the Magic Find enchantment increases the chance of catching rare sea creatures like the Yeti
and Nutcracker. Additionally, the Lure enchantment increases the chance of catching sea creatures in general.

Another thing to consider is the time of day. Some players have reported that they have better luck catching Yetis and
Nutcrackers at certain times of the day, such as early in the morning or late at night.

Additionally, it's worth noting that the Jerry Island has a variety of different fishing spots, each with their own
unique sea creatures and catch chances. Some players may prefer to fish in the hot springs under the volcano, while
others may prefer the Jerry Pond. Experiment with different fishing spots to see which one works best for you.

Finally, it's worth mentioning that there are a variety of different tools and items that can help you with your
fishing. For example, the Fisherman's Handbook can be purchased from the Jerry Island shop and gives valuable
information about different sea creatures, as well as tips for fishing in general. Additionally, the Fishing of the Sea
can be used to increase the chances of catching rare sea creatures for a limited time.

Overall, Yeti and Nutcracker fishing on the Jerry Island can be a great way to earn money in the game, but it does take
some patience and dedication. With the right gear, enchantments, and fishing spots, you can increase your chances of
catching these rare sea creatures and make a profit.
